---
title: KA in Bounded Storage Model
author: Shiyu
date: 2025-06-17 19:05:00 -0400
tags:
  - BSM
pin: false
math: true
render_with_liquid: false
---

Traditional cryptography assumes that the adversary runs in polynomial time. In contrast, the Bounded Storage Model (BSM) restricts only the adversary's storage space, without limiting its computational power. It has been shown that key agreement (KA) exists unconditionally in BSM when the adversary's storage $a = O(s^2)$ is at most quadratically larger than the honest party storage $s$ [CM97]. This result is demonstrated to be optimal: KA is impossible when $a>s^2$ [DM04]. 

To overcome this quadratic barrier, a streaming variant of BSM was introduced, where parties can send long strings to each other by communicating bit-by-bit, while operating with limited local memory [DQW23]. In streaming BSM, KA exists when the space gap between honest parties and the adversary is exponentially large, but the streaming rounds and communication must grow with $a$. 

Later, a hybrid setting is considered in [BCEQ24], where the adversary is restricted both in storage and in computational resources. Assuming the existence of one-way functions, 2-round KA exists with an arbitrary polynomial space gap.

**Open Questions**
1. Under the standard assumption that the adversary is polynomial time, there are primitives that are either not known or provably cannot be constructed from OWF. If we further restrict the storage space of the adversary to a fixed polynomial (or there is a fixed polynomial space gap between the adversary and honest parties), can we have new constructions from OWFs?
	- Typical primitives/protocols include zero-knowledge interactive proofs for NP, single-server private information retrieval, and constant-bias coin flipping. 
	- The construction of OT in [DQW23] can also be improved by using PRF.    

2. It is proved that when KA against space-a PPT adversary with r rounds using $s<=a^{1/polylog(r)^r}$ space for honest parties exists, non-uniform infinitly-often space-bounded OWF (SB-OWF) exists. When there is only 1 long stream round, assuming a small space gap (i.e., $a = O(s^2)$) is sufficient for SB-OWF; But in the case of a constant number of streaming rounds, the required space gap becomes significantly larger. 
	- When the number of streaming rounds is a large constant, can we get SB-OWF under a smaller space gap?
	- When the number of streaming rounds is superconstant, the constructed SB-OWF is secure against an adversary with exponentially large space. Can we get SB-OWF against a polynomial-space adversary from a KA with a superconstant number of streaming rounds?

**Reference**
- [CM97]  [Unconditional Security Against Memory-Bounded Adversaries.](https://crypto.cs.mcgill.ca/~crepeau/PLLS16/chp-3A10.1007-2FBFb0052243.pdf)
- [DM04]  [On Generating the Initial Key in the Bounded-Storage Model.](https://iacr.org/archive/eurocrypt2004/30270127/dm04.pdf)
- [DQW23]   [Speak Much, Remember Little: Cryptography in the Bounded Storage Model, Revisited.](https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1270.pdf)
- [BCEQ24]  [On Bounded Storage Key Agreement and One-Way Functions.](https://hal.science/hal-04770569/document)