---
title: Lower Bound on Lattice-Based FE
author: Shiyu
date: 2025-07-15 19:05:00 -0400
tags:
  - FE
pin: false
math: true
render_with_liquid: false
---

Functional encryption (FE) is a powerful primitive. It implies iO when it is compact, i.e., the ciphertext size is small enough. The only known constructions of linearly compact FE for even quadratic FE are pairing-based. Tairi and Unal give a lower bound on lattice-based linearly compact (bounded-collusion) FE in [TU23]. 

They define a framework that captures a common structure of existing lattice-based FE schemes and prove that any linearly compact FEs within this framework is insecure. The framework is characterized by the following features: 1) the functional decryption key is a constant-degree polynomial; 2) every message in $\mathbb{Z}_p^n$ is encrypted by evaluating a set of constant-degree random polynomials, the resulting ciphertext has dimension $O(n)$; 3) decryption is performed by evaluating the functional decryption key polynomial on the ciphertext, followed by scaling.

The proof strategy is to show that any FE in this framework implies a secret-key encryption (SKE), and then break the SKE. The impossibility of basing function-hiding FE on lattice is shown using the similar approach.

**Open Questions**
1. The impossibility result holds when the degree of polynomials used in KGen and Enc are constant degree, it remains open when the degree is super-constant.
2. The ciphertext dimension is $O(n)$ in the lower bound result, and it is conjectured that the lower bound holds when the ciphertext dimension is $O(n^{d-e})$, where $d$ is the degree of the functional secret key, $e$ is some constant.
3. The proof requires the message modulus p to be larger than some constant, in particular, $p > 2$. It is open that whether the lower bound extends to $p = 2$.

**Reference**
- [TU23]  [Lower Bounds for Lattice-based Compact Functional Encryption.](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/719.pdf)