---
title: Private Set Intersection
author: Chase
date: 2025-08-19 00:27:00 -0400
# categories:
#   - Blogging
#   - Tutorial
tags: [DPF]
pin: false
math: true
render_with_liquid: false
---

Abstract: Private set intersection (PSI) allows two parties to privately compute the common elements in their sets without leaking any information about their sets beyond that. In previous works, the goal was to maximize efficiency in one way or another. In [KRRT16], they give up communication efficiency in order to achieve great computational efficiency, making their scheme ideal for LAN settings. On the other hand, [PRTY19] optimize the communication, but sacrifice a large amount of computation by using finite field arithmetic in their construction. The main focus of this talk is [CM20] in which the authors try to achieve a balanced middle ground between these two previous works to get a scheme that has modest communication and computational efficiency. To do this the authors look at the main building block of the previous works, that being oblivious pseudorandom functions (OPRF). The authors are able to construct OPRF in a way that is light on computation, but can also save communication when applied to PSI. This talk discusses the previous works on PSI mentioned as well as how [CM20] get this impressive best of both worls result.

Speaker: Chase Fickes

Open Question:
This work achieves malicious security only for the malicious sender setting. Is there any way to keep the efficiency while achieving malicious security in the case where either party is malicious?
Given the efficiency of the multi-point OPRF construction, is there any other uses for this primative in MPC?

Papers Referenced:
[CM20]: https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/729.pdf
[KRRT16]: https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/799.pdf
[PRTY19]: https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/634.pdf
