---
title: CDP for Inner-Product Functionality Implies OT
author: Shiyu
date: 2025-09-09 00:00-0400
tags:
pin: false
math: true
render_with_liquid: false
---
Haitner, Mazor, Silbak, Tsfadia, and Yan show that a distributed two-party differentially private inner-product protocol can be used to construct OT in black-box manner [HMSTY25]. 

The key technical step is a construction from CDP for inner-product functionality to approximate erasure weak channel (AWEC). Together with the results: AWEC $\Rightarrow$ WEC [HMSTY25], WEC $\Rightarrow$ weak OT [Wul09], and weak OT $\Rightarrow$ OT [Wul07], this gives the full construction of OT from CDP.

In a two-party CDP protocol for inner-product functionality, parties $A$ and $B$ hold inputs $x\in \{-1, 1\}^n, y\in \{-1, 1\}^n$ respectively, and wish to compute the inner-product $\langle x, y\rangle$. The privacy requires that for any two inputs $y, y'$ that differ in one coordinate, $A$ cannot tell which input $B$ uses.
In addition to the privacy requirement, the proposed construction of OT has accuracy requirement on the CDP protocol: on random inputs, the CDP protocol is $(\ell, 0.999)$-accurate, i.e., the output is within distance $\ell << n^{1/6}$ from the inner-product with the probability at least 0.999.

WEC is a protocol where there are two parties $A$ and $B$ without input; the output of $A$ is 0 or 1, while the output of $B$ is 0 or 1 or $\bot$ [Wul09]. It satisfies the following conditions 1) Random erasure: with probability 1/2, the output of $B$ is erased. 2) Agreement: when $B$ does not output $\bot$, the probability that the outputs of $A$ and $B$ are different is bounded. 3) Secrecy: first, $A$ does not know whether $B$ gets $\bot$ or not; second, if $B$ gets $\bot$, he does not know the output of $A$. AWEC is defined identically as WEC, except that the outputs of $A$ and $B$ are bit strings that may differ slightly rather than exactly identical.

**Open Problem**
- Characterize CDP for inner-product functionality. A CDP protocol for inner-product functionality with up to an additive error $O(n^{1/6})$ is equivalent to OT (In fact, a protocol with a small polynomial additive error is equivalent to a protocol with a constant error) [HMSTY25]. When error is $O(n^{1/2})$, a weaker notion of CDP (against external observer) is equivalent to KA. For errors in the range between $n^{1/6}$ and $n^{1/2}$, there is no good characterization.
- Characterize CDP for more general functionalities. For some functionalities, e.g., Hamming Distance, there is a simple reduction to inner-product functionality. But finding a more general characterization that captures more functionalities remains open. A typical example is CDP for threshold functions. A threshold function $c_x$ over a totally ordered domain $X$ evaluates to $c_x(y) = 1$ if $y\leq x$, and evaluates to 0 otherwise [BNSV15].


**Reference**
- [HMSTY25] Iftach Haitner, Noam Mazor, Jad Silbak, Eliad Tsfadia, and Chao Yan. [Computationally Differentially Private Inner-Product Protocols Imply Oblivious Transfer](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.15629)
- [Wul09] Jurg Wullschleger. [Oblivious Transfer from Weak Noisy Channels](https://eprint.iacr.org/2008/420.pdf)
- [Wul07] Jurg Wullschleger. [Oblivious-Transfer Amplification](https://iacr.org/archive/eurocrypt2007/45150555/45150555.pdf)
- [HMST22] Iftach Haitner, Noam Mazor, Jad Silbak, and Eliad Tsfadia. [On the Complexity of Two-Party Differential Privacy](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2108.07664)
- [BNSV15] Mark Bun, Kobbi Nissim, Uri Stemmer, and Salil Vadhan. [Differentially Private Release and Learning of Threshold Functions](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7354419)