---
title: Oblivious Random Access Memory (ORAM)
author: Jinye
date: 2025-07-08 00:27:00 -0400
# categories:
#   - Blogging
#   - Tutorial
tags: [ORAM]
pin: false
math: true
render_with_liquid: false
---

Today, we introduce the primitive Oblivious Random Access Memory (ORAM). ORAM considers a setting between the server and the client. The client outsources a database to the server and wishes to perform read and write operations, meanwhile preserving the privacy. The functionality of ORAM is to hide the access of read and write operations that the client makes to the database. We first introduce the naive construction of the ORAM, the square-root ORAM, which realizes the oblivious property through a random permutation and a buffer. The overhead is dominated by the amortized reshuffling, which is $O(\sqrt{n}\log^2 n)$ for a database of size $n$. Then we will introduce the Hierarchical construction of the ORAM. This construction divides the buffer into different-sized parts according to the frequency with which they are accessed and makes the reshuffling more frequent for those more frequently accessed parts with smaller size. As a result, the amortized overhead for reshuffling can be reduced to $O(\log^3 n)$. Finally, we introduce the other category of ORAM constructions, Tree-based ORAM, which hopefully has better security and concrete efficiency.

**Open questions**
1. Research on the lower bounds of the bandwidth cost of ORAM with a fixed number of rounds is still quite limited.
2. For computational secure ORAM the lower bound has matched the best known ORAM, but there is a gap for statistical secure ORAM.


**Reference** 

- [GO96] https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/233551.233553
- [CP13] https://eprint.iacr.org/2013/243.pdf

